This is what we have to listen to. What is the principle cause of our suffering and our
difficulties, but individually and as well as in the world? World in samsara.
This is known as "Two Egos". We think Hainji Rinpohe said here too, and this is "Two Egos". That is
what we should remove.
"Two Egos" are the exaggerations. "Two Egos" are the publications of our duality model. It is not
realistic.
Even Hainji Rinpohe said that yesterday, but his "Two Egos" are the impure relationship.
They are this great Master Kong. "Two Egos" are the same as "two ears" by the eye of a cataract.
Cataract's eye joins our tongues, or two double images. This is not realistic. It is not true. It
is not really existing. It is just exaggerated.
But yet, it has become so fundamental to bring all our troubles, troubles to individualists,
troubles to all sentient beings.
This is notion. This is the exaggeration of the mind. Therefore, we have to remove. We have to
release by the teaching of the Mademakas.
That is what we have to remove. These "Two Egos", what is called? "Two Egos" are known as the
individually ego and general egos.
In the Tibetan teaching, "Chi" said, "Gang za kep da" and "Chi kep da", an individually ego and a
phenomenal ego, or an individually notion of "I" and a phenomenal notion of the tense.
This is the two egos, or the two eyes. This is the, as I said, this is, but it is deep down of this
. It is grasping, grasping.
For that reason, the great Master, Master Dushanti Deva said, "Here, we have to remove, remove the
cause of suffering, which is the grasping."
He said, then Dushanti Deva said, "Clinging on the clinging, clinging on the clinging is the cause
of suffering that should be removed."
That is, that is what is this. And therefore, this clinging then can be divided, as I said, there
is two, individually, "I" or the ego, and a phenomenal clinging, phenomenal clinging.
This is the two, two egos. And now, this is again, all the great Masters, one voice said, from the
Hinayana teaching, all the way to the Vedayana teaching,
"Ego is trouble. Ego is problems, problematics. It is problems. And ego is, is, is just grasping,
but yet, it is so sensitive, so sensitive, it is so fragile.
It can't take any resistance. Immediately, it suffers, even though it is, there is nothing, nothing
, nothing."
And this is the one, what it is. And how that developed, and he said, first, and that is what great
Master Dushanti Deva said,
"First, you cling to yourself, that, and second, then you cling to the minds, minds. And then, all
kind of nets of the grasping is beginning to develop that, that."
And so, therefore, this ego has to be removed by the Mademaka teaching. It's not realistic. This,
for example, according to Mademaka teaching, this poem is here.
House is here, earth is here, fire is here, water is here, wind is here, but ego is really not here
at all. It's just exaggeration.
Even at a related level, ego is not existing as, as, as other related truths. They just said, it's
just a notion.
But as I said, even though it is like that, it is the most problems, from the beginner's time until
now. Therefore, it has to be released, it has to be removed.
And for that, and to do this, is again, again through the emancipation, analyzation of, of, of, of
this, or again here, the great Master's kingdom you said, as like teaching.
And, and what is the distinction of these two egos? Distinction of two egos is, is, is, one is
general and the other is particular.
And generally it means the first phenomenon ego, phenomenon clinging, that's it. Clinging is
general. It's very general.
And then clinging to "I" is particular individuals. So it is, one is very general and the other is
particular individuals.
And, and so now, first word, the individually ego or the "I", that is the word to walk,
individually ego is the object to remove by all schools of available deserves.
There is no difference. There is no difference between Hine or Harabada, Mahayana and the Vedayanas
.
Even in the Vedayana Gurbia Masambhata says, see, see, obstacle is our mind. Gurbia Masambhata said
, obstacle is our mind, that obstacle come from mind.
So that conception is demon, that that demon come from mind. That's what the Gurbia Masambhata said
. So in Vedayana teaching, that is.
So from now on, from the Hine there is no difference.
This phenomenon ego is particularly that to remove. This is then special teachings of the Mahayana
and that's what is Vedayana.
So ego is that all Buddhism accept the same thing, but then this phenomenon ego is that is what the
Mahayana and Vedayana teaches it.
And so that, I think we go more closely.